## Angular - 9-13-2015


## Value Based Dirty Checking - 12:13 PM

Up until this point we've been doing value-based dirty checking with strict
equality. This works fine for all primitives like numbers, strings, etc... and
tells us when an object or an array changes to a new one. There is another way
to angular can detect changes. That is when something inside an object or array
changes. You can watch for changes in value, not just in reference.

Were doing this by adding a third parameter to the function $watch signature.
When the flag is true, value based checking is used. 

It looks like this 
```Javascript
Scope.prototype.$watch = function(watchFn, listenerFn, valueEq) {
  var watcher = {
    watchFn: watchFn,
    listenerFn: listenerFn || function() { },
    valueEq: !!valueEq,
    last: initWatchVal
  }
}

```

#Review - 11:45 AM
So we've implemented a lot of really cool checks on the digest loop. 
Some of those are the preventing the digest loop from running double. 
What do I mean by this. Well in the original digest loop we implemented if we
added 100 objects to the watch array.. (called the watch function) 100 times we
would have to do two loops through them especially if one is dirty. So we could
potentially be going through 200 items. 

The first optimization is creating a value on the scope that stores the
$$lastDirtyWatch. It essentially stores the last item that was found to be dirty
in the watches object. This way after the first loop we are able to identify the
last item that was dirty and stop the loop there. This will help us to say only
do 201 instead of 400.


The other point is what happens when we call a watch inside of a watch. We
should be able to reset the $$lastDirtyWatch property. This allows us to go
through the dirty checking again. 

